Hello everyone! Welcome to this CSS Grid tutorial.
Today we'll learn how to create responsive layouts
using CSS Grid.
Let's start by defining a grid container.
[keyboard typing]
We use "display: grid" to create a grid container.
Then we define columns with "grid-template-columns".
For example: grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr 1fr;
This creates three equal columns.
[mouse clicking]
Now let's add some gap between grid items.
We use the "gap" property for this.
gap: 20px; will add 20 pixels of space
between all grid items.
Let's see how this looks in the browser.
[browser refreshing]
Perfect! Now we have a responsive grid layout.
You can also use grid-template-areas
for more complex layouts.
This allows you to name different sections
of your grid.
For example, you can define header, sidebar,
main content, and footer areas.
[keyboard typing]
Let me show you an example.
We define the template areas like this:
grid-template-areas...
Then we assign each grid item to an area
using grid-area property.
This makes your CSS much more readable
and maintainable.
CSS Grid is incredibly powerful for creating
modern web layouts.
Practice these concepts, and you'll be creating
amazing layouts in no time!
Thanks for watching! See you in the next tutorial.
[upbeat music]